>> So, my name is Malcolm Crawford, Technical
Writer at, with Rent-a Mob, apparently...
Technical writer at Apple, welcome then to this afternoons
session, getting started with Cocoa bindings.
What's the intention for this session?
First of all, it is very much a getting started session,
so in previous years, we've got into rather more detail
than we're going to go into in this session.
The presentation's going to be broken
up broadly into two sections.
First of all addressing these goals; to answer the
questions, first of all, what is Cocoa Bindings?
What's the problem that it solves?
Why would you be interested in using
Cocoa bindings in your application?
What benefits will you accrue and so on?
And then the rather trivial question
right to the end, what is a binding?
And the goal, really, in the first half then, is to provide
you with an understanding of how bindings actually works
and in particular then, to prove that its not magic.
There's no magic involved in this.
You can write the code that's required
yourselves to establish bindings and so on.
That's part of, part of what we'll see.
Part of the goal is to then show you the simple rules
and technologies that underlie how bindings work.
To many people, bindings sometimes appear very
opaque, very complicated, that's typically as a result
of what you might view as being emergent behavior,
as a result of the combination of very simple rules.
So, understanding the simple rules and behaviors
that underlie Cocoa bindings will help you
diagnose any problems that you might have.
So that's the majority of the presentation.
During the second half of the presentation, or second
quarter or so of the presentation, we'll look at
some of the difficulties that people
sometimes encounter and some thoughts
as to how you might approach learning bindings and so on.
So learning from those who have gone before you.
What else will you learn?
Primarily during the first three quarters or so, first of
all then, what are the technologies that underlie bindings?
What is it that you have to understand in order
to figure out how bindings works and so on.
We'll look at, how do you actually establish bindings, both
in an interface builder and very importantly, in codes.
This goes very much towards the let's
prove that bindings aren't magic.
You can write the line of code yourself that's required.
We'll also then look at what's the role of an
NS controller object?
What are, for those of you who've looked at any of the
bindings related materials in the interface builder,
what are those green cubes or green spheres
that appear with an interface builder?
So, let's actually get on, straight away,
with answering the basic questions.
First of all, while you are here,
what is, what is Cocoa bindings?
Let's address that straight off.
It can be addressed in very, with a very simple answer.
A collection of technologies for
keeping models and views synchronized.
That encompasses the whole of what bindings are about.
There's really not very much to it in terms of concept.
Why might this be of interest to you?
Well the way that bindings approaches
the problem typically means
that you write less code yourself, a whole lot of code we'll
see, disappears when you use bindings and typically, also,
bindings means that you end up with a more polished,
more refined user interface that takes care of some
of the edge cases that you don't necessarily have time to
deal with, at least in version one of your application.
So, bindings is a collection of technologies
for keeping models and views synchronized.
What's a problem they solve?
Well, from a rather more abstract
perspective, for those of you in particularly
who managed to do the headstart.
Can I just see actually, who managed
to go through the headstart sample?
Anybody? A few, okay, so I'll have to do a quick
recap then of exactly what the headstart sample did.
So I might go into a little bit more detail.
Bindings give you an abstraction or refractoring of some
of the typical sorts of problems that you have to solve
within your own application or just about
every application that you have to write.
And that was illustrated then in the head
start sample, so actually go through that now.
The headstart sample basically took a very simple
application, not as simple as the one we're going
to consider in a moment, but still, fairly simple
application that had a table view that displayed a number
of URLs, allowed you to add a URL to the table
view, inspect the detail of a particular URL
so it had the URL, creation date,
and title associated with it.
That was the user interface. To make sure everything
worked correctly, it was a document based application
so it was a custom, sub-clause of
NS document, that first of all,
had a whole lot of outlets pointing
out into the user interface.
I'm trusting then, that everybody's
aware of what IB outlets are.
Anybody not know what IB outlets are?
Okay. So I'm afraid you're going to
get a little bit lost for two of you.
But, bear with me, hopefully it
will make sense as we go along.
So this is going to be a very, this is going to be
definitely a crash course to Cocoa for you then.
So, outlets, as people typically familiar within any Cocoa
application for reaching out into the user interface,
and it manages then, an array of bookmark objects.
So in the sample application, well you didn't actually
write loads of code here, I wrote some code and you got
to see the code at least, for doing fairly menial tasks.
Moving data from the user interface down into the
bookmark objects, as a user entered data, added bookmarks.
Managing selection handling, so if
they use a selected a new bookmark,
make sure that that was displayed
in the underlying detail field.
And then the application also supported drag and
drop, and it might, if I had actually been bothered,
have also supported sorting and filtering.
So, although this revolved around a table view,
really is a sort of recurring theme throughout
almost any application that you write.
You have data in your use interface, you have underlying
model objects and you've got a shuffle information
between the two as a user edit data or maybe
something else, change let's say an AppleScript
to whatever, changes the data underneath.
That means to reflect it in your user interface.
And anybody here actually enjoy writing that code?
Oh, one, two people, two, two masochists
in the audience, then excellent.
You can ask them later to do that
for you, for a fee doubtless.
It's typically some of the most
uninteresting code that you have to write.
It's fiddly and error-prone.
How many people have had the situation where
there's that one text field at the edge
of the window that actually didn't update properly?
I'm sure, or is it just, okay, it's just me.
Typically, you have to remember, okay, what
are all the different outlets that I've got,
make sure everything is updated appropriately and
it's an ideal candidate basically, for abstraction
and refactoring make somebody else do
all the work for you, ideally, the Cocoa Team.
So, if we're going to give this task
to somebody else to perform for us,
what are the things that we got to be able to do?
We've got to be able to tell whoever's
taking care of all this gnarly mess for us,
first of all, what should be kept in sync with what.
We've obviously need a means to specifying that, we've
also got to be able to provide a way of shuffling the data
around both from the view down to the
model and from the model out to the view.
And we've got to be able to do things like keep track
of the current selection, so if we're dealing with more
than one object, if we're dealing with a collection of
objects, whether it's an array, a tree of objects, whatever,
we want to be able to make sure that
we know what's currently selected
so it can update any detail views and so on.
And, we've got to do all of this without
require you to adopt a particular root class.
We want to make sure that this works
with any class you throw at us.
So, that's a fairly steep collection of requirements.
We'll come back to those later.
For now though, what's the final, what's the
answer to the final question, what is a binding?
So, if you'll forgive me just reading this one, a binding
is a specification that an attribute of one object is
to be kept synchronized with a
property of another, with options.
Hooray, good, right.
Let's actually try to understand what that really meant,
with a more simple example then,
than the bookmarks examples.
So, rather than looking at, its, although the
bookmarks example is not particularly complicated,
but we can make it simpler still and
still address the fundamental issues,
the fundamental ideas, that you need to understand bindings.
So, its actually incredibly difficult to come
up with a convincing real world scenario
for an example that's this simple.
But, imagine you're sitting down to write a
write, to write a mixing desk ap, desk application
and you have track objects that know what
their volume is and the title of the track.
And you're just setting down to prototype this
so you have your model object and all you have
on your display is a single window
that has a text field and a slider
and for the sake of it, we'll have a mute button on it.
I hope everybody's convinced by this.
To make it simpler still though,
let's forget about the title,
so all we're dealing with is a single window
with a button slider and a text field.
When the user enters a new value into the text field, it
sends the control object, the my document, beg your pardon,
the document then has outlets reaching out into the user
interface, so its knows about the text field and the slider.
When those are activated by the user, they send a message
to the controller objects to update the appropriate volume.
The mute button, then, sets the
volume to zero and the document knows
about the single track object that its managing.
So, that's a very simple application that
we're going to consider during the hands
on session, see how, may that work with bindings.
Before we go on though, one of the criteria that we had
for a collection of, for our abstraction refactoring,
was that we're going to require this to work with any class.
So, let's consider that in the context
of our very simple application.
Typically, in a custom class, we have custom accessor
methods for the various properties of those classes.
So the properties, for example, are not going to include
the IB actions so just the actual instance variables
of the relevant classes, typically don't have accessor
methods for the IB outlets, so you may imagine then,
that the document class has an accessor method
for track to get and set the track value.
The track itself then has accessor methods
to get and set its volume and so on.
But, if we're trying to generate a reusable technology,
then making use of these custom accessor methods is going
to make the technology not reusable,
we wouldn't be able to reuse any
of the abstraction if we used custom accessor methods.
So instead, we're introducing this
idea of keys and key paths.
Keys are simply strings that specify properties.
Can I just see, who's come across this,
who has, I should ask the negative.
Who has not come across the idea of key, of key
value, key value coding, that sort of thing before?
Who's not come across that?
Oh, okay, so I can just pretty much skip the rest of this.
People are aware that volume, as a
string, is a key for the volume attributes
and then who's come across the idea of key paths?
So its volume, does track dot volume
means something to everybody?
Who has not come across that concept before?
Okay, for those of you who have not come across that
earlier, the idea of a key path is it allows you
to traverse relationships between objects.
So a document instance has an instance variable track,
the track itself has an instance variable volume.
So for a given document, we can access the volume
of its track using the key path track dot volume.
So a key path is simply a concatenation of
keys where the relationships limited by dots,
by force dots or periods, depending on your locale.
Okay, so with that in mind then, what do we
have to do if we want to set up bindings,
given what our specifications of bindings it was?
Its actually two parts that I want to go through.
First of all, how do you set up bindings?
And then, what are, what are the
technologies that lie behind bindings?
So, in part, with the set up technologies, first of all,
is key value binding, we'll come back to that in terms
of the definition of what is a binding in a moment.
Then as part of the binding process you set
up observation using key value observing.
And then there are these controller things.
So let's address the controller things first.
The controller things are set up to abstract
the function of managing either a single object
or in many cases, a collection of objects.
So there's a number of different controller objects.
First of all one for a single object, NS object controller.
And then there are a variety of other ones for managing
either a dictionary, new in Leopard, an array or a tree.
And there's a couple of controller
objects for managing user defaults.
The main one that we're gonna consider during the hands
on session just is the single NS object controller.
So we've got this, all these object
controllers and what do they actually do?
The main thing that they do is manage their content.
You pass over to them responsibility for managing the object
they have, or objects that they have as their content.
That may be a little bit subtle.
That's something else we'll come
back to in a couple of slides' time.
If you have a collection of objects, if they
manage a collection, one of the great things
that the object controllers do for
you is manage the current selection.
That'll be more obvious in the headstart example.
We're gonna come back to that at the end.
They also provide a fair amount of other
functionality like supporting filtering and sorting.
And if you want to allow deferred... partial
editing of values within your user interface,
they'll allow you to monitor more, more
readily when something is being edited.
So you can for example make sure that you don't allow a
user to close a window before our change has been committed.
So those are sort of benefits that a controller gives you.
Where would a controller fit into a very simple application?
Well, basically right in the middle
between user interface and the document.
So again to interpose an instance of NS
object controller to manage the single track.
Currently the track is managed by the document instance.
But we can tell the object controller, you
should get your track from the document.
That's an important thing.
Again we're going to come back to
that in a couple of slides time.
So if that's the controller part of the setting up bindings,
another part of the set up was
the key value binding protocol.
There are a number of methods in
The only one that we're interested in at the moment as part
of the getting started theme is the method
that's used to actually establish the bindings.
So the methods that's for that, that's used for
that is bind to object with key path options.
What does that method do?
Well, fundamentally you could state that as being
a specification that an attribute of one object is
to be kept synchronized with the
property of another with options.
So remember the answer to question three, what is a binding.
In some respects, that method is a
concrete manifestation of what is a binding.
It's what you set up using that method.
One of the things I'd like to sort of,
sort of get you to think of here is
that a binding is established rather than created.
If you think about the way that you set up target action in
Interface Builder when you control drag from say a button
down to an object that influences
an instance, an action method.
When you make that connection, you're
actually setting two instance variables.
The target and the action.
In a similar way, when you start out
binding, you're not actually creating a binding,
you're filling in information to say what
should be kept synchronized with what.
So if we set up the bindings for our very simple
application, we know have our object controller
into between our interface and the underlying document.
And we want to specify, we want to bind the content
object of the controller with the document track.
The important thing here and the reason for not
binding directly to the track in the section is
that if the track changes, then if the user interface
elements are bound to the controller as the intermediary,
if the track changes, then the user interface elements
start following as it were the new track rather
than continue to be bound to the old track.
So this is another reason why we have the
object controller sitting there in the middle.
If the track changes, we want to keep the user
interface synchronized now with the new track.
So for both the text field and then the slider,
we want to make sure that their values are kept
synchronized with the controllers selections value.
So what is the content object or in the, the case
of an object controller is just a single selection.
But if you had an array or a tree controller, you may
have multiple objects of which just one is selected.
So the selection of that object controller.
So that's setting up bindings.
But there's another part to setting up bindings.
This comes of the key value observing heading.
Key value observing, the set up is the
first step in the notification process.
Key value observing allows an object to tell other
objects that one of its properties has changed.
In order for it to tell those other objects,
those other objects have gotta tell it
that they're interested in that change.
So registering that interest is
performed in the registration side
of KVO using the add observer for
key path options context method.
I'm not gonna say anything more about that now
It turns out we actually don't need to know
anything more about that at this stage.
It's just the first step in a change notification mechanism.
So in the registration side of things, just in the same
that we're setting up bindings, in fact at the same time
that we're setting up bindings, the object controller
registers as being an observer of the documents track,
the text field registers an observer of the object
controllers selections volume as does the slider.
So with that, I'd like to go to the hands on stage.
So I'm hoping that those who want to follow along
have had an opportunity now to download the example.
Still getting a 404 error.
( Inaudible audience comment. )
Okay for those of you who did not
hear that, apparently if you Google
for simple bindings adoption, you
will get that as the first result.
Thank you for the gentlemen in the Google T-shirt.
( Laughter )
I'm not joking, he is.
I hope that at least you'll be able to follow, there
are two parts then to the demo, to the hands on session.
First of all establishing bindings
programmatically and then in Interface Builder.
So if you haven't managed to download the application yet,
perhaps you could just wait for the download to happen.
Follow along with the code section of it, then the
much more exciting is the doing stuff in IB anyway.
So the application is very simple.
If I just build and run it straight
off, and then hide, opps.
Hide Xcode.
This has got a trivial user interface.
What I'd just like to draw your
attention to straight off though,
note that the user interface is as
it were uninitialized at this stage.
So when the thing launches, we've been a little
bit lazy, well I think a little bit lazy.
It doesn't show the current volume
and the slide is at its default value.
However, if I press the mute button, the volume goes
down to zero and I can type in a new value and it goes,
the user interface is updated appropriately,
the slider of course for volume goes up to 11.
A good quarter of you got that, excellent.
( Laughter )
So very simple application.
Not an awful lot of code behind it.
The ironically the track object on model
object is probably the least interesting part
of this, for this particular demonstration.
So you got a simple track object that
has, that it has a volume and a type
as I already described with suitable
access methods implemented.
That's all I'm going to say about that at this stage though.
The document class though is a little
bit more interesting in this context.
It has as I showed in the slides earlier, outlets
to the slider into the text field and one thing
that wasn't apparent in the original block
diagram was method update user interface.
That is invoked both by the update volume
from method and by the mute track method.
So in response to any user interaction that
changes the tracks volume, we must go out
and update the user interface accordingly.
Well, that's exactly what we don't want to do.
We don't want to have to write the code and
maintain the code for doing that ourselves.
So let's throw caution to the wind and assume that as part
of our new bindings based implementation
we're not going to need that method.
So let's delete that.
That's always a good start of a code demo, delete stuff.
So given that we're deleting that method, let's delete it
from both the mute track and from the update volume from.
So hope since I'm deleting stuff here, people
can keep up with that part of it at least.
Save and let's just delete that
method from the header file as well.
What I do need to do though, what we need to
do though is make, set up the bindings now.
And create any of the associated objects
that, that I need to support the bindings.
So the first thing that we said we wanted
to do was to create a new object controller.
So we want to do this early on in
the lifetime of the application,
before the whole lot of user interfaces have been populated.
So the document architecture gives us a convenient
method for doing this, window controller load nib.
For those of you who haven't used document
architecture before, this is akin to awake from nib.
For those of you who haven't heard of awake from
nib before, it does pretty much what it says.
So within this method, we want to
create a new object controller.
So this is code that you now have to
type in if you're following along.
Sorry, there is gonna be some code.
Remember we're doing this in two stage,
code based and then Interface Builder based.
Do remember the what is it, control,
control full stop auto complete for Xcode?
So create a new instance of object controller.
( Period of silence )
Then given this new instance of object controller, we
want to tell it where it's going to get its data from.
What's its content object?
So we bind its content using the key value
binding, binding establishing method.
So we tell a controller to bind its content object,
so be careful with the capitalization there.
The O is capitalized.
To object self.
Remember we're editing at the moment
the code for the my document instance.
This is my document class that has the track object.
So it's my track object with key path track.
Put that under a separate line so it, so it's more obvious.
So the controllers objects contents is gonna be my track
and to save writing additional lines
of code at this stage, no options.
So that set up the content for the controller object.
We now want to make sure that the text field
and the slider are set up appropriately.
So we pretty much replicate that code for first of all
the text field, except we bind the text fields value,
so whatever it is that it's displayed
in the text field to the controller
that we just created with a key path selection dot volume.
So whatever the current selection in the object controller
and because the object controller only has a
single object, it's always the single track.
Whatever its volume is.
And then the easiest thing to do is actually just copy
and paste but, we also then want to bind the slider.
So either you can drag it in from your helpful assistant,
or easier for you copy and paste and type in slider.
( Period of silence )
So four lines of code basically and there I hope everybody's
kept up with that who wants to keep up with that.
Not really very much, I hope that's
not very complicated code either.
If we build this and run.
Low and behold our user interface is set up appropriately.
Note that the volume is now set appropriately as well.
If I change the slider, the volume updates appropriately.
If I type in a new value, the slider updates.
If I hit mute, the volume goes down to zero.
So for those of you who managed to
follow along, congratulations, you,
for those of you for who this is the first time, you
now have created your first bindings based application.
And you did it the hard way.
So congratulations.
Now let's do it the easy way.
So I'm hoping then that those of you who had to Google for
the source code have now managed to at least download it
and we get on to the second part of the example, we can
just do, do exactly the same as this in Interface Builder.
So the useful part here is that in addition to the
other methods that we just had, that we just deleted,
we can actually now delete that method that we just wrote.
So sorry if that appeared like a waste of time,
but we'll come back to see why that
wasn't a waste of time in a moment.
So now let's establish those bindings in Interface Builder.
So open then the my document class, I beg
your pardon, the my document nib file.
The first thing to do is to add an object controller.
So who is not running Leopard?
Anybody not running Leopard?
So for those of you who are not running Leopard, you
should see in your Interface Builder palette an icon
that looks pretty much like this
under the controllers button.
Drag in a new instance of NS object
controller into the nib file.
So that's the object controller that we created.
We now want to tell it where it's going to
get its information from, what's its content.
So the easiest way to do that in
both in Tiger and on Leopard is just
to press command 4 to bring up the bindings inspector.
We need to tell it where to get its content object from.
So its content object is going
to come from the files owners.
So the instance is my document.
Click the bind to button.
And the model key path is going to
be let's say selection dot track.
Press return.
For those of you muttering, yes.
Now we can set up the bindings for
the text field and for the slider.
So select the text field and slider.
Select the text field first.
Look at its value binding.
We want to bind it to the object controllers selection.
Volume. Press return.
And this same for the slider.
So text field and slider both bound to the
object controllers selection dot volume.
So if I save the nib file now.
Go back to Xcode.
Build and run.
The window didn't appear.
Hm. What happened?
Well, despite the fact that we're using bindings,
let's try looking at the debugger console.
It seems there's a lot of error messages.
One of them, well they all basically say the same thing.
A message was sent to an object that is not
KVC compliant for the selection property.
And it was sent to an instance of my document.
So it seems that somewhere along the line we've
tried to access the property selection of an instance
of document, and documents don't have a selection.
So a couple of you, it sounded like a couple
you had spotted the deliberate mistake.
The object controllers key path didn't want to be
selection dot track, it just wanted to be track.
The my document instance doesn't have an idea of selection.
It's just managing its own tracks.
If I change that,
( Period of silence )
The application now behaves correctly.
So for those who managed to follow along in that
section, congratulations, you now also managed to go
through your first bindings debugging session as well.
I hope that everybody who wanted to go through that
managed to download the sample then and go through that.
That's the end of the hands on session,
so or the hands on part of the session,
so my apologies then to anybody
who is still left behind there
So if we go back to slides and let's
just recap what we actually did in that.
First of all, in setting up the bindings programmatically,
one of the great things we did straight
off was remove a whole lot of code.
So all of that gnarly code just for
getting stuff from the user interface
and shuffling it around went away, which is good.
Because we were establishing the bindings
programmatically first of all, we kept the IB outlets.
Okay, fair enough.
And then used the key value binding
method to set up the bindings.
And as a side effect, remember what I said
about more user interface polish with less code,
the user interface was properly initialized
when we, when the application was launched.
Importantly also I mentioned that the model class ironically
in this case was the least interesting part of the example.
We didn't touch that at all.
That's something else to come back
to in a couple of slides time.
For those of you who are concerned about the
object controller, we did alloc init auto release.
In some respects, by rights it ought have disappeared
at the end of the window controller did load nib method.
But actually an important thing to bear in mind is that
objects bind, sorry, retain objects to which they're bound.
so given that we established a binding between
the, sorry between the text field and the slider
and the object controller, they made sure that the object
controller didn't go away until they were finished with it.
So there actually wasn't a memory
management issue there at all.
In the second part of the demo, we removed
all the bindings establishing code, removed,
well actually I didn't remove the outlets, should have done.
And we didn't change the mute track method.
That stayed exactly as it was.
So basically the second part was just removing
code and setting things up in Interface Builder.
It's important to bear in mind though, this is,
this getting to the bindings isn't the magic
thing then, that those two parts were equivalent.
Think about setting, establishing a binding.
We had it in a, in one of the cases simply
a text field whose value needed to be bound
to the selection dot volume of the object controller.
You did this in two ways.
In Interface Builder and in code.
In Interface Builder the inspector looked
pretty much like how it does on the left.
And code that you wrote was as it is on the right.
One of the key things that I want you to take away from
this presentation is that these two are equivalent.
These two are exactly the same thing.
One is done in Interface Builder, the other is done in code.
If we work our way down what the parts are of the Interface
Builder inspector, and the arguments are in the bind method,
you can see exactly where the equivalences are.
At the top of the bindings inspector for this
particular binding, we have the binding name.
That's the first argument to the bind method, what
is it, what property is it that you want to bind?
The second part of it is what's it going to be bound to?
The object argument to the bind
method, we specify that in the pop up.
The third part was well what's the key
path to the object to which we're bound?
That's specified by this combination of controller key
and model key path in the Interface Builder inspector
and by the single argument, the key
path argument in the bind method.
And then finally the options simply a dictionary of any
other settings that you want for this particular binding.
And it just so happens that in this case, nil is the
same as setting those defaults in Interface Builder.
So key point here, this and this are the same.
So for those of you who are confused by
this, I hope you're not confused by this.
Anyone can write a line of code.
So when you look at that and you're confused,
think well I could have written that.
So it's easy.
If you really want to go away and
write all your lines of code, all,
establish all the bindings programmatically
rather than doing it in Interface Builder,
remember those two gentlemen earlier who said
that they like doing that, so go and ask them.
So that's the first half of setting up, of
looking at what bindings are and how they work.
Actually setting up the bindings.
Well, what's happening behind the scenes?
What technologies do we have to understand?
What technologies does Cocoa bindings
use to do its work for you?
The first part, we actually got
a clue about in the error message
that came back when we set up the binding incorrectly.
Key value coding, actually whose
not, I think I asked before.
Who's not heard of key value coding?
Okay, so key value coding everybody familiar with, gives
you a means of managing and accessing an objects properties
by key, by extension key paths allow you to
transverse relationships between objects.
An important thing about key value coding as pertains to
Cocoa bindings though is that it's really sort of unicast.
Key value coding is used to send, to update values
from a single user interface element
to the property to which it's bound.
So it's as it were one object at a time.
Key value coding with paths, everybody, I'm guessing then
that everybody is familiar with,
so don't need to say anything more.
Or much more at least.
Key value something, using key value coding allows
you traverse key paths to both get and set methods.
So get and set value, get and set values.
And key value coding continues to use
custom accessing methods if they exist.
So it gives you a convenient way of
eliminating a fair amount of code.
To reiterate a point that I made earlier.
Key value coding then is used to propagate
changes from views to the controller
or through the controller down to the model.
So if the user changes a value either in slider or in a text
field, in these particular cases, the selection dot volume
of the controller is changed using key value coding.
The other side of this, we come back to key value observing.
So remember when we were key value observing?
We looked at the, key value observing
registration part in binding set up,
the reason for setting up key value observing was so
that if a change was made to the value of a model object,
that could be broadcast throughout,
through the whole application
to any object that had registered interest in that.
So we saw the registration part of it, key value
observing noted, change notification is passed
out by using the observe value for key
path of object change context method.
So any objects that are bound need
to implement this similar line
to receive notification that an objects value has changed.
This is sort of multicast because
there may be many observers.
So in the case of our simple application,
we have a change of a value going
from the model to the controller to the views.
You have to watch this one carefully.
So focus first of all on the mute button.
If the user presses the mute button, the volume
on the of the current track is set to zero.
That then results in an observe message being sent
to both of the objects that registered an interest
in that value, namely this text field and the slider.
How come all of this just worked though?
Because we didn't actually change the track class.
We didn't do anything special with the
text field or the slider or anything.
We just used those in the bindings based
versions of the application without any changes.
Well, it turns out that using the appropriately named
accessor methods, typically assures both KVC compliance
as it sounds like most of you are
aware but also KVO compliance.
So provided you use appropriately named
accessor method in your model classes,
you will also get KVO compliance,
key value observance compliance.
Your model objects will automatically send out the
appropriate KVO notifications if values change.
So the Cocoa team has done some
additional work for you there as well.
Let's summarize then what we've actually
learned during this first three quarters or so.
First of all we said that Cocoa bindings
are a way to abstract and refactor some
of the least interesting parts of your application.
And we gave this set of requirements.
We need first of all to specify what
should be kept in sync with what.
And so on.
And we also said that it's got to
be able to work with any class.
Well, we've now gone through and
addressed all of these needs.
To specify what should be kept in sync
with what, we have key value binding.
To move data between the view and
the model, we have key value coding.
To move information the other way,
we have key value observing.
To keep track of the current selection and so
on, we have NS controller and its subclasses.
So NS object controller we've looked at and
there are others which I'll turn to in a moment.
And then in order to be able to work with any of your
existing classes, we have key value technologies.
So KVC, KVO and KVB.
I just want to turn this around quickly for a moment to
look at things the other, from a different perspective
to summarize the actual technologies themselves, key
value bindings, the NS key value binding protocol used
to establish bindings, but then key value observing used
to actual register the dependency, key value coding is used
to communicate from view to model, key value observing
used to propagate changes in the other direction
and then NS controller and subclasses
used to, used to manage model objects.
So I'm not sure if that seems like an awful lot or not
lot, but basically that's the fundamentals of all you need
to know in order to figure out how bindings works.
It's no more complicated in its fundamentals,
in the basic technologies than that.
Everything else basically is a permutation of those.
How though does it correspond, how does
it work with the bookmarks example?
So for those of you who looked at the, the headstart
and for the example that I gave through the beginning,
if I just go back and do a, do a quick comparison
of two implementations of the bookmarks example.
For the headstart, this is pretty much the example
that I gave before with a couple little tweaks.
The data new data source code has been to
away separate, data in a separate file.
The first action uses standard Cocoa
technologies, the second uses bindings.
Rather than going through the source code to each of
those, I just want to compare the two implementations.
So let's compare those in file launch.
I'm not interested in the two things that are
identical or that are being added or deleted.
I'm just interested in the things that have changed
and primarily actually the code that's changed.
So we had a document instance that
was managing the user interface.
I'm going to, another heads up here, the
source code to this is also available in ADC,
so you may have seen already the
with and without binding sample code.
So I'm just gonna go through this very
quickly now so that you can have a look
at this afterwards yourselves and do a direct comparison.
But I just want to highlight a few things.
so in the without bindings example, we had a whole lot
of user interface outlets and a whole lot of methods
for responding to user interface changes
and propagating back to the user interface.
From the, just from the header files
it looks like all of those disappeared.
That's a rather good thing.
From the implementation, there was only one change it turns
out in the implementation but it was quite a big change.
( Period of silence )
So all that code dealing with the table view data source
and propagating changes and so on, that all disappeared.
So that's good too.
That's not a particularly profound thing though.
The table view data source is a thing that I really
want o concentrate on for, for this next section.
The table view data source as you might
hope for, the for a bindings based example,
the table view data source method
is pretty much all disappeared,
but the ones that supported drag and drop didn't.
Which is sort of a little bit interesting.
Let's have a look at the implementation.
Opps. There are six differences.
First of all the data source method
has disappeared as I just said.
But there a few other small changes that percolate through.
Most of the table view drag and
drop methods are the same though.
There's a few little things that I'm
actually creating new objects and figuring
out where an object is gonna get inserted and so on.
But again, most of the stuff is still the same
with the exception of the deleted methods.
So why is that interesting?
( Period of silence )
Well first of all, a whole lot of source code went away.
That's encouraging.
But the thing that I didn't show you,
the crucial thing that I didn't show you.
Whereas in the non bindings version, the
table view data source was implemented
in the document subclass as a category.
In the bindings implementation, I had
a subclass of NS array controller.
So NS, a custom subclass of NS array
controller had taken on the responsibility
of a managing drag and drop in the table view.
So as I said this is available as sample code.
Looking at that pictorially, what actually happened, all
of the code that was written originally to move data around
and so on disappeared and was replaced
by an instance of NS array controller.
But specifically a custom subclass thereof
that still had the drag and drop code.
That you still had to write.
The point behind this is to get you to think about
the different roles that objects have in bindings.
The controller, the NS controller
objects are still controller objects,
but they're still also changeable by subclassing.
If they don't do exactly what you want,
you now have a different locus of control
that you can, to which you can give responsibility.
In a typical application that uses, uses
a table view, your main controller object,
in this case the document class is responsible for managing
the table view, for managing the selection on so on.
If that, if that responsibility is pushed out into another
object, that object can also take reasonability for some
of the other custom behavior such
as managing drag and drop as well.
So what I'm hoping is that presenting the role of the
controller or the NS controller objects in terms basically
of refactoring will give you a different handle
and possibly a more approachable handle
on the way that Cocoa bindings works.
It's the sort of thing that you might have done
yourself, had you had enough time and inclination.
So think about the controller objects
just in terms of refactoring behavior.
But it's still customizable.
So that then concludes the first of three quarters or
so of the presentation in terms of what are bindings,
how are they set up, what are the
technologies that lie behind bindings and so on.
Now I want to go onto the second section, stuff
that may not make immediate sense now
but I hope will make sense afterwards.
Particularly as you get to an especially
painful moment in dealing with bindings.
The first consideration I'd like to make,
make for you is a rather personal one.
How many people went to the, the getting started
with core data session this morning as well?
Okay. Please, for those of you who did, for those of you
who are just starting with both core data and bindings,
both these technologies give you a high
level of abstraction away from your own code.
They both use the same underlying technologies.
Key value coding, key value observing.
If you try to learn the two at the same time
and make a mistake somewhere along the line,
it can be very difficult to determine
where that mistake was.
So please, I strongly encourage you choose one.
I don't care whether its bindings or core data.
Choose one of those and master that, or if you
don't master it, at least become intimately familiar
with it first and then go on to the other.
It'll mean diagnosing problems is a lot easier for you.
I know it's very tempting to try
to do both at the same time.
But choose one, master that, then go on to the other.
It'll make life easier.
Second thing, the controller layer sometimes
people think oh it's a bit easy isn't it?
I mean that controller just sits
there managing a single object.
There's actually a lot to it.
It manages to make some operations
an awful lot more efficient as well.
So don't overlook its capabilities.
The other thing, sometimes people see bindings
or imagine the bindings is gonna be a
complete panacea or a silver bullet.
I hope that one of the things that the bookmarks
example showed is that you still have to write code.
There's gonna be some situations in which
bindings doesn't do everything for you.
You still have to add your own value to your application.
Hopefully that you're adding it in a more interesting
place than just in the data marshalling and glue code.
And as part of that, existing Cocoa
pathways technologies is still valid.
It's still entirely reasonable
to use the target action pattern
to connect the mute button up to a mute track method.
You don't want to use bindings for it.
It actually makes, if you tried to use bindings
to set up that, that particular button,
it would end up being a whole lot more complicated.
So use the appropriate technology and use it wisely.
Don't think that you can just plaster bindings all over your
application and just you know suddenly have no code at all.
So some other problems that you might encounter.
One of the more common ones that we
see is that people say that oh, my,
my values didn't update somewhere along the line.
Why might that be?
Well there are a number of reasons
actually spreading over two slides.
First of all, bear in mind that
not everything is KVO compliant.
Indeed actually most things are not.
When you consider the whole of
foundation and the whole of app kit.
One of the ones that people come into particularly when
they're writing inspectors, so I'll just say that again.
For those of you who are going to be
trying to write inspectors at some stage,
trying to get hold of the document controllers
main document instance, that's not KVO compliant.
So if you try to make a binding to
that, its not gonna get kept updated.
If you have a look at the, in Leopard,
sample code of the text edit application,
you'll see there's actually an example
there of how to make a binding,
how to make a KVO compliant binding to the main document.
Another thing that we see people doing fairly commonly
is not changing values in a KVO compliant way.
We just saw in the trivial example that
simply invoking an appropriate access method
or using key value coding typically
means that KVO notifications are sent.
But it's also possible to changes
things in a non KVO compliant way.
Particularly if you have say collections of objects.
If you're simply inserting the object directly
into an array, that's not KVO compliant.
The key value observing programming guide goes through
a number of different ways in which you can make sure
that you can adhere or make sure you
are key value observing compliant.
So make sure you read that documentation as well.
One of the other pleas that we have from the
engineering is and this may not make sense
until you read the programming guide, but bear it in mind.
Don't invoke the change notification methods
unless you've actually changed a value.
Sometimes people see things that aren't updating
appropriately in the user interface and think well maybe
if I just invoke will change value for key then did
change value for key, that'll send out a notification
and the value will be updated appropriately.
Most of the time it is and it works.
At some stage though it is quite possible that your
application will crash when you try to use that.
And at some stage in the future it may not work at all.
So please don't just invoke the KVO change notifications
arbitrarily just to tickle the user interface update.
Other reasons why user interface might not
update or might not appear to have updated.
Do bear in mind the granularity of changes.
Sometimes it may be that something just
hasn't changed yet in, in your application.
And you need to wait a little while
before that change is propagated through.
So sometimes if you try to ask a model object for its
new value when you think that something has changed,
it may not have had an opportunity to change yet.
Another important, another important consideration is the
asymmetry between the different bindings technologies.
That is something I sort of, I
try to stress as we went through.
You bind a view to a model not the other way around.
With a possible rare exception of web view.
So changing a view value does not cause that value
to be propagated down to the underlying data objects.
So occasionally we see people saying
well I sent a set flow value message
to this text field and the data value didn't update.
Well that's because that's not how bindings works.
If you want to, if you want to update the
data value, update the data value directly
and the view will update correspondingly.
So make sure you observe the asymmetry there.
A couple of things that are perhaps less than obvious.
First of all, a binding name isn't
necessarily the same as a property name.
So we saw that the text field had a value binding.
Well NS text field doesn't actually have a value
instance variable or a value accessor method or whatever.
It does have a value binding though.
So don't necessarily assume that just because a particular
or a particular class that you're going to interact
with has a, has a particular accessor method pair or
a particular instance variable that you can bind that.
Have a look in the bindings reference documentation
to see what bindings are actually available.
And then you'll also see what the
various options are as well.
Final on in this section.
I said there was no magic.
The one thing that gets close to being magic but its not
really in bindings is that there are a couple of bindings
that are set up for you automatically in table views.
And this tends to confuse people
when they're not expecting it.
If you bind a table columns value, so bind
a value of a table column in a table view,
that automatically behind the scenes sets up three
additional bindings for you for the table view itself.
So if you happen to want to programmatically
establish a binding for content, selection indexes,
or source descriptors, you must actually set
those three up, set up each of those three.
You can't just programmatically bind one.
You have to programmatically bind all of them.
So that catches some people out.
Finally debugging.
One of the things that comes up
occasionally in the list is people say,
well I got this back trace and
I don't know what's gone wrong.
Well I hope that again from the example that
we went through during the hands on session,
it'll now be a little bit more obvious that
the debug message means exactly what it says.
It's usually pretty helpless.
Well this one particular object that I'm trying to bind
to is not KVC compliant for the key that you gave me.
So your task then is to find well where did I make
a mistake in trying to set that particular key?
Things are actually a little bit better
or will be a little bit better in Leopard.
When you get this error message in Leopard
at some stage in the future, the near future,
you'll actually get an object ID for the user interface
element that was trying to set up the bindings.
So you can actually go directly to Interface Builder
to say okay which was the object that I was trying
to bind that's got the incorrect key path.
So having gone through then setting up bindings,
the technology behind bindings and learning
from others, let's get on to the conclusion.
What have we actually learned from this?
First of all, what Cocoa bindings are, a
collection of technologies for keeping model
and view synchronized, the values therein.
And then there are three technologies
that Cocoa bindings relies on.
First of all, key value binding itself,
key value observing, and key value coding.
And then controller objects manage either a
single object or a collection of other objects.
If you want to know more, Derrick Horn is probably
sitting in a room next door just waiting for your call.
Feel free to contact Deric if you want to know
more about Cocoa bindings or you have any feedback,
any specific feedback about the
technology or where you would
like to see Cocoa bindings going in the future and so on.
And then there is a fair amount
of documentation on the subject.
We are hoping that it will be improved in the future.
We're aware of limitations therein.
There are though increasing numbers of, increasing
pieces of sample code that are available.
So a couple that have posted recently
say, one in particular bound button.
It said that you typically don't want to bind buttons.
But for the sake of it I though it would be worth posting a,
posting an example of one case binding a button
does actually make a certain amount of sense.
So have a, feel free to have a look at that.
And there's a collection, there's a small framework of new
bindings enabled objects that's I think should be posted now
or should be posted in the very near future.
Bindings electric.
And then there are several of those coming up in the future.